Cuckoo Sandbox. auto install script

What is Cuckoo Sandbox?

Cuckoo Sandbox is a malware analysis system.
If you want to analyze malware, you might have run in to the Cuckoo Sandbox project which has been crafted by Claudio Guarnieri , Alessandro Tanasi , Jurriaan Bremer and Mark Schloesser.

The team which has been mentioned earlier has created the Cuckoo Sandbox project, so people will be able to analyze malware in their own personal environment.

So what does the Cuckoo Sandbox project produce as results?

The Cuckoo Sandbox is able to provide RAW data which includes, but is not limited to:

–          Native functions and Windows API calls traces

–          Copies of files created and deleted from the filesystem

–          Dump of the memory of the selected process

–          Full memory dump of the analysis machine

–          Screenshots of the desktop during the execution of the malware analysis

–          Network dump generated by the machine used for the analysis

Once the RAW data has been collected, the Cuckoo Sandbox project will allow the user to create “end-user” reports. The Cuckoo Sandbox is currently able to provide the following types of reports:

–          JSON

–          HTML

–          MAEC

–          MongoDB interface

–          HPFeeds interface

The Cuckoo Sandbox has been written in Python, so you can easily access the source code and adjust it to your personal demands.



What does that mean?

It means that you can throw any suspicious file at it and get a report with details about the file's behavior inside an isolated environment.

Supported systems

Most of this script is not distro dependant (tough of course you've got to run it on GNU/Linux), but package installation, at this moment supports only debian derivatives.

Also, given that we use the propietary virtualbox version (most of the time OSE edition doesn't fulfill our needs), this script requires that they've got a debian repo in Virtualbox Downloads for your distro. Forcing the distro in config file should make it work in unsupported ones.

Authors

David Reguera García - Dreg - dreguera@buguroo.com - @fr33project

David Francos Cuartero - XayOn - dfrancos@buguroo.com - @davidfrancos

Quickstart guide

Clone this repo & execute the script: bash cuckooautoinstall.bash
/../screenshots/cuckooautoinstall.png?raw=true
If you trust us, your network setup and a lot of more variables enough (wich is totally not-recommended) and you're as lazy as it gets, you can execute as a normal user if you've got sudo configured:

wget -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/buguroo/cuckooautoinstall/master/cuckooautoinstall.bash | bash
The script does accept a configuration file in the form of a simple bash script with options such as:

SUDO="sudo"
TMPDIR=$(mktemp -d)
RELEASE=$(lsb_release -cs)
CUCKOO_USER="cuckoo"
CUSTOM_PKGS=""
ORIG_DIR=$( cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}"   )" && pwd   )
VOLATILITY_URL="http://downloads.volatilityfoundation.org/releases/2.4/volatility-2.4.tar.gz"
VIRTUALBOX_REP="deb http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian $RELEASE contrib"
CUCKOO_REPO='https://github.com/cuckoobox/cuckoo'
YARA_REPO="https://github.com/plusvic/yara"
JANSSON_REPO="https://github.com/akheron/jansson"

LOG=$(mktemp)
UPGRADE=false
You can override any of these variables in the config file.

It accepts parameters

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                CuckooAutoInstall 0.2                    │
│ David Reguera García - Dreg <dreguera@buguroo.com>      │
│ David Francos Cuartero - XayOn <dfrancos@buguroo.com>   │
│            Buguroo Offensive Security - 2015            │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
Usage: cuckooautoinstall.bash [--verbose|-v] [--help|-h] [--upgrade|-u]

    --verbose   Print output to stdout instead of temp logfile
    --help      This help menu
    --upgrade   Use newer volatility, yara and jansson versions (install from source)
For most setups, --upgrade is recommended always.

Add a password (as root) for the user 'cuckoo' created by the script
passwd cuckoo
Create the virtual machines http://docs.cuckoosandbox.org/en/latest/installation/guest/ or import virtual machines
VBoxManage import virtual_machine.ova
Add to the virtual machines with HostOnly option using vboxnet0
vboxmanage modifyvm “virtual_machine" --hostonlyadapter1 vboxnet0
Configure cuckoo (http://docs.cuckoosandbox.org/en/latest/installation/host/configuration/ )
Execute cuckoo
cd ~cuckoo/cuckoo
python cuckoo.py
/../screenshots/github%20cuckoo%20working.png?raw=true
Execute also webpy (default port 8080)
cd ~cuckoo/cuckoo/utils
python web.py
/../screenshots/github%20webpy.png?raw=true
Execute also django using port 6969
cd ~cuckoo/cuckoo/web
python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:6969
/../screenshots/github%20django.png?raw=true
Script features

Installs by default Cuckoo sandbox with the ALL optional stuff: yara, ssdeep, django ...
Installs the last versions of ssdeep, yara, pydeep-master & jansson.
Solves common problems during the installation: ldconfigs, autoreconfs...
Installs by default virtualbox and creates the hostonlyif.
Creates the 'cuckoo' user in the system and it is also added this user to vboxusers group.
Enables mongodb in conf/reporting.conf
Creates the iptables rules and the ip forward to enable internet in the cuckoo virtual machines
sudo iptables -A FORWARD -o eth0 -i vboxnet0 -s 192.168.56.0/24 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A POSTROUTING -t nat -j MASQUERADE
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
Enables run tcpdump from nonroot user

sudo apt-get -y install libcap2-bin
sudo setcap cap_net_raw,cap_net_admin=eip /usr/sbin/tcpdump
Fixes the "TEMPLATE_DIRS setting must be a tuple" error when running python manage.py from the DJANGO version >= 1.6. Replacing in web/web/settings.py

TEMPLATE_DIRS = (
    "templates"
)
becomes

TEMPLATE_DIRS = (
    ("templates"),
)
Install cuckoo as daemon

For this, we recommend supervisor usage.

Install supervisor

sudo apt-get install supervisor
Edit /etc/supervisor/conf.d/cuckoo.conf , like

[program:cuckoo]
command=python cuckoo.py
directory=/home/cuckoo
User=cuckoo

[program:cuckoo-web]
command=python web.py
directory=/home/cuckoo/utils
user=cuckoo

[program:cuckoo-api]
command=python api.py
directory=/home/cuckoo/utils
user=cuckoo
Reload supervisor

sudo supervisorctl reload
iptables

As you probably have already noticed, iptables rules don't stay there after a reboot. If you want to make them persistent, we recommend iptables-save & iptables-restore

iptables-save > your_custom_iptables_rules
iptables-restore < your_custom_iptables_rules
Extra help

You may want to read:

Remote - Enabling remote administration of VMS and VBox
OVA - Working with OVA images
Antivm How to deal with malware that has VM detection techniques
VMcloak VMCloak - Cuckoo windows virtual machines management
TODO

Improve documentation
Contributing

This project is licensed as GPL3+ as you can see in "LICENSE" file. All pull requests are welcome, having in mind that:

The scripting style must be compliant with the current one
New features must be in sepparate branches (way better if it's git-flow =) )
Please, check that it works correctly before submitting a PR.
We'd probably be answering to PRs in a 7-14 day period, please be patient.
